instead of saying I am here and
extremely formidable you could say I'm
not here at all that of course is a
straightforward lie but there's a bird
in these Brazilian forests that tells
the most convincing lies finding it is
not easy indeed I'm quite sure I've
walked past one many times without
knowing it but this time we're lucky
it's sitting on the tree trunk it's a
part to a kind of night jar it hunts for
insects at night so like any other night
worker it needs to rest during the day
and it relies on the visual match
between its feathers in the tree trunk
to protect it from disturbance the only
thing that could give it away or its
beak and its eyes now I'm getting quite
close so it decides to improve its
disguise even further and it does that
by changing its posture and closing
those giveaway eyes now it's no more
than the stump of a broken branch
you might think it would be a dangerous
thing to do to shut your eyes just when
danger approaches but in fact although
its eyes are shut it can still see me
there are two little hitches in its
upper eyelid and it's night vision eyes
are so sensitive that it can still see
what's going on as it watches me going
away it relaxes and returns to its doze